---
title: "Repository structure"
weight: 20
main:
  parent: technical
---

The following document outlines the structure of the code. We make use of 
[operator-sdk](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/) which is built on top of 
[kubebuilder](https://book.kubebuilder.io/quick-start) and 
[controller-gen](https://book.kubebuilder.io/reference/controller-gen.html) to 
construct our controllers, so the structure is based on the output of these 
toolchains.

- `api`: Go specification of types for schemas of the custom resources, 
  generated by operator-sdk (using kubebuilder/controller-gen), with annotations 
  for JSON/YAML fields.
- `bin`: Location where Go tool binaries are placed upon installation.
- `cmd`: Entry points of the operator and web application programs.
- `chart`: Helm chart for deployment of Chantico and its dependencies 
  (Prometheus, SNMP exporter, filebrowser, VictoriaMetrics long-term retention, 
  Grafana dashboard).
- `config`: Location of Kubernetes resources, Helm charts, etc.:
  - `config/crds/bases`: Custom resource definitions.
  - `config/manifests`: Resources for fully configured set of manifests used to 
    generate a bundled directory.
  - `config/rbac`: Cluster roles for access of resource controllers.
  - `config/samples`: Example resource YAML for applying custom resources used 
    by the Chantico controllers.
- `dev`: Files for local development, including mock SNMP resource, MIB 
  specification and deployment using local KinD cluster.
- `docs`: Documentation sources.
  - `docs/assets`: Binary files for documentation publishing, such as logos.
  - `docs/hugo`: Documentation publishing configuration and templates, including 
    partial HTML layouts and themes.
- `hack`: Boilerplate for new files to add license block to top of code.
- `internal`: Controller and module source code of the Chantico operator.
